##### Steps to Build Reports Using ReportBurster and Artificial Intelligence

1. Click _Copy to Clipboard_ button to copy the initial prompt
2. _Customize or modify the prompt_ using your specific requirements, following the rules described below
3. Paste the entire (modified) prompt into <a href="https://copilot.microsoft.com" target="_blank">**Microsoft Copilot**</a> or your preferred AI assistant
4. _Copy the complete HTML code generated by the AI_ and paste it back into the ReportBurster editor

**Tips** 1. Go to <a href="https://color.adobe.com/explore" target="_blank">**Adobe Color Explore**</a> and choose a beautiful document color theme (based on color theory) 2. Explore business report templates on <a href="https://create.microsoft.com/en-us/search?query=business" target="_blank">**Microsoft Create**</a>. Capture a screenshot of your selected template and upload it to a capable LLM. Request a detailed natural language description or an HTML page that faithfully replicates the template, and use the **prompt1** or **prompt2** technique provided below.

---

##### Create reports with AI, HTML and CSS - No coding required. For best results provide clear, effective instructions to the AI. Read below for more details.

With the assistance of **Artificial Intelligence** and the power of HTML and CSS in building your reports, the possibilities become limitless. These languages are simple to read and write, powerful, and highly flexible.

Please ensure you check the **Readme** instructions for the templates you plan to use.
_The **Readme** instructions are particularly important for the "Excel" templates_.

##### Template Prompts

We provide two prompts for each template:

**prompt1: modify this HTML template with some changes, as needed**

Use this prompt if you want to reuse the overall layout of the report. Within the **Customization Instructions** section, specify your company information and additional requirements in detail.

- **Best practice**: For **prompt1** include all customization requirements exclusively under the **Customization Instructions** section, without altering other parts of the prompt.
- While you can modify the prompt as desired, the best results are achieved by clearly detailing changes in the **Customization Instructions** section.

**prompt2: build your HTML template from scratch, using this template's (full) prompt as a guide**

This prompt provides a comprehensive AI guide that enables a capable LLM to recreate the HTML template entirely from scratch.

- Feel free to read and adjust the prompt as needed.
- For optimal results, _identify and retain the most critical foundational instructions unaltered_. This approach offers extensive customization options by letting you adjust larger sections of the instructions given to the LLM. However, it also increases the risk of unintended changes.

Both prompts are great for learning how to leverage AI LLMs to create custom reports, with **prompt2: build your HTML template from scratch** being ideal for learning how to build **your own custom reports _from scratch_**.
